Usage level equipment
=====================

Plugs and sockets
-----------------

Having appropriate plugs and sockets make your 12V off-grid system much easier to use. A socket that can be used for multiple appliances means that you have the flexibility of using what you want when you want it. Consider in relation to a normal home what you might want to hard-wire in place (lights, pumps) and what would work better with a plug and socket (most other things). Sockets (the female side) are the source of power, while plugs (the male side) draw the power from the socket. This is to mitigate the risk of electrocution from a protruding male connector. 

Almost any type of plugs and sockets can be used, including the standard UK, US and EU household varieties. However this will certainly be a source of confusion will likely damage appliances if an AC appliance is mistakenly plugged into a 12V DC source. For this reason it is best to use dedicated low voltage DC plugs and sockets as your fittings. This gives the added flexibility of being able to use many 12V appliances out of the box.

Cigarette lighter sockets are easily obtainable. Try visiting a scrap yard to see if you can recycle the sockets out of old cars. Or you can easily buy sockets online or at car parts shops and wire them into your system.

Switches
--------

Switches are very simple devices that are used to open and close circuits. Switches are the easiest way for a user to control when and where power is used in a system system. When including a switch in a circuit remember that any lights and appliances connected in series with it will be affected by it. Any lights and appliances in parallel with the switched circuit are on a separate circuit and will not be affected by it. It is often a good idea to install a main isolator switch at the very start of your system so that you can easily switch everything off. In most electrics, wires are run to ensure switches are located conveniently (it is not always convenient to put the light switch right beside the light). Switches are also a good idea for any hard-wired appliances that have LEDs in them, as these will drain a small amount of power even when you are not using them.

Lights
------

Not all 12V lights are created equal. LEDs (light emitting diodes) and SMDs (surface mounted diodes) draw about 10 times less current than 12V halogen lights. This difference adds up quickly under normal use. 

USB
---

USB sockets supply power at 5V for USB appliances. So in order to charge anything via USB you will need to ensure the voltage is stepped down to 5V. Equipment to do this can be found very cheaply online. 
